---
title: Apps with continued user involvement are responsive to increasing skill levels over time
tags: BehavioralProductStrategy Retention
---
Near the beginning of a person's personal productivity journey, they may be fine with using Apple Reminders as their form of task manager. Eventually, [[User skill level increases over time]], so they may want to sort tasks into projects. Apple Reminders can handle that, so the user remains satisfied. 

Eventually, they read Getting Things Done and realize that the Lists within Apple Reminders just won't do the trick. According to the principles of [[Difficulty Matching]], this is the point where they could get bored with their status quo. They might migrate over to something like Todoist, which is flexible and can handle those workflows.

Roam is one of the best examples I've seen of an app that is responsive to increasing skill levels over time. It doesn't seem to matter how much skill the user has - they are still able to accomplish something valuable. I've been using it for a while now and the way that I use it is more advanced than most. At the same time, I'm still regularly given something new to learn that excites me and awaken more goals. [[User goals change over time]], and by increasing my skill, I'm able to accomplish my goals. I'm constantly thinking to myself "I've only scratched the surface." This potential for growth leads to an incredibly gratifying feedback loop where the user gains some skill, they are able to put it into application, and that allows them to grow and become more competent, exciting them more towards other skills that they could gain.