When people think of gamification, they tend to think of points, badges, and leaderboards. They make claims like "gamification is good for engagement” or “gamification should only come in at X stage." Academic researchers will research questions like “is gamification effective?” This is based on the assumption that gamification is a monolithic thing.  

However, gamification can be done without feeling like gamification, without points, without badges, without extrinsic rewards. This is because gamification is, in fact, a whole domain of study. It represents a deep interplay between behavioral/cognitive science, game design, human-computer interaction, and research methods.

When people ask me if gamification is effective, I have the same reaction that I expect many would have from the questions "Is strategy effective?" or "Is design effective?" How you do it is deeply important.

I bear the same shocked reaction when someone asks "is gamification effective?" that many people would have if you asked them, "is design effective?" Let me say it clearly: **Gamification is not one monolithic thing.** Instead, it represents a deep interplay between behavioral/cognitive science, game design, human-computer interaction, and research methods. [[Gamification is influencing user behavior through design decisions informed by principles of behavioral science and game design that increase voluntary usage::rsn]]

Gamification as you've been seeing it for years isn't being inspired by games and behavioral science, but rather, by other gamification. As a result of this lazy gamification, we've ended up with a "Foursquare genre of gamification" that doesn't understand when it’s welcome and applies copy/paste solutions to problems and populations that they weren't meant to solve for.

However, if we lump the points, badges, and leaderboards that we're used to seeing into a "Foursquare genre," then that can be liberating. We can break past the shackles of what's known and venture into new territory. [[There could be many genres of gamification]], and we've only scratched the surface.