Academic behavioral scientists generally want to learn about people as a whole, rather than just the people in their experiment. They want to approach a journal and say, "Publish my paper, I have discovered a fundamental truth about people!"

In order to do that, they select samples of people to participate in their experiment that are meant to be generally representative of the public as a whole. They end up studying nobody in particular.[[There is reasonable cause to doubt whether they are even doing this in the first place.  See "Is Behavioral Science Just Too Weird?" by Elina Halonen: https://www.moneyonthemind.org/post/is-behavioural-science-just-too-weird::rmn]] 

They remove contextual factors so they can isolate their independent variables and say their results came from their intervention and not from specific details of the environments they tested people within. However, behavioral science is mostly the study of how factors within our environments influence our behavior. The results we gain from internally valid experiments don't often have the external validity that we need to make effective product decisions.

**Your product is not used by the general public, [[Design products to study its users in the relevant contexts]], namely, within your product.** Ask questions about who your users are, what their goals are, and what behaviors they do within your product and in the contexts that surround your product. This will allow you to distinguish signal from noise.

Product people do want to come up with generalizable principles from the information that they bring in, but we only need to generalize them to future business decisions regarding our users within the contexts we care about. Because we are more precise with what we are claiming our results apply to, we are able to more consistently replicate our findings.